 NAGESWARA RAO, J.	None
For the sake of convenience, we are referring to the facts of Civil Appeal No.1328 of 2021.	Facts
Civil Appeal No. 1328 of 2021 By an order of assessment dated 31.01.2005, the Assessing Officer restricted the eligible deduction under Section 80IA of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter the Act) to the extent of business income only.	Issue
On 23.03.2006, the Commissioner of IncomeTax (Appeal)I (hereinafter the Appellate Authority) partly allowed the Appeal filed by the Assessee and reversed the order of the Assessing Officer on the issue of the extent of deduction under Section 80IA of the Act.	Issue
The Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter the Tribunal), upheld the decision of the Appellate Authority on the issue of deduction under Section 80IA.	Issue
The High Court refused to interfere with the Tribunals order as far as the issue on deduction under Section 80IA is concerned.	Issue
Therefore, this Appeal by the Revenue.	Facts
This Appeal pertains to the assessment year 200203 for which the incometax return was filed by the Assessee on 31.10.2002 declaring the total income as NIL.	Facts
The return was subsequently revised on 06.12.2002 and thereafter, on 30.03.2004.	Facts
At the time of the assessment proceedings, the Assessee submitted a revised computation of income by revising its claim of deduction under Section 80IA of the Act.	Facts
The Assessee is in the business of generation of power and also deals with purchase and distribution of power.	Facts
The AssesseeCompany generated power from its power unit located at Dahanu.	Facts
In respect of deduction under Section 80 IA of the Act, the Assessee was asked to explain as to why the deduction should not be restricted to business income, as had been the stand of the Revenue for the assessment year 200001.	Facts
The Assessee had revised its claim under Section 80IA of the Act to Rs. 546,26,01,224/, having admitted that there was an error in calculation of incometax depreciation.	Facts
The Assessing Officer considered the revised claim of the Assessee under Section 80IA and determined the amount eligible for deduction under Section 80IA at Rs.	Facts
492,78,60,973/ against the Assessees claim of Rs. 546,26,01,224/.	Facts
However, the Assessing Officer stated in the assessment order that the actual deduction allowable shall be to the extent of income from business as per provisions of Section 80AB of the Act.	Facts
The business income of the Assessee was computed at Rs. 355,74,73,451/ and the gross total income at Rs. 397,37,70,178/. Inclusion of income from other sources of Rs.	Facts
41,62,96,727/ in the gross total income and deduction claimed under Chapter VI A of the Act against such gross total income was not accepted by the Assessing Officer.	Facts
The Assessing Officer rejected the claim of the Assessee for allowing deduction under Section 80IA of the Act, along with other deductions available to the Assessee, to the extent of gross total income and restricted the deduction allowed under Section 80IA at Rs.354,00,75,084/, by limiting the aggregate of deductions under Sections 80IA and 80IB of the Act to business income of the Assessee.	Facts
The Assessing Officer rejected the contention of the Assessee that Section 80AB of the Act is not applicable.	Facts
It was held that Section 80AB of the Act makes it clear that for the purposes of deduction in respect of certain incomes, deduction had to be given on the income of the nature specified in the relevant section and allowed against income of that nature alone.	Facts
The Assessing Officer elaborated on this point by stating that income from business alone had to be considered for allowing any deduction computed on income from business and using the same analogy, deduction computed on income from other sources should be allowable against income from other sources only.	Facts
As the deduction under Section 80IA of the Act pertains to profits and gains from a business undertaking, the deduction is allowable only against income from business.	Facts
It was held by the Assessing Officer that deduction computed under Section 80IA of the Act could not be allowed against any source other than business.	Facts
The Assessing Officer also relied upon the words that nature and shall alone in Section 80AB of the Act to hold that deduction under a relevant section has to be given to the extent of the income from that particular source only on which deduction is available.	Facts
In the matter before us, this would mean that deduction under Section 80 IA of the Act has to be allowed only to the extent of income from business.	Facts
It was argued by the Assessee before the Appellate Authority that the conclusion of the Assessing Officer on deduction under Section 80IA of the Act being restricted to business income needs to be set aside.	Facts
The Assessee contended that the observation of the Assessing Officer that deduction under a particular section is permissible only against income under that particular head was erroneous.	Facts
Deductions related to various incomes under various sections of Chapter VIA have to be quantified in accordance with the respective sections.	Facts
The Assessee urged before the Appellate Authority that the deductions so quantified under various sections under Chapter VIA have to be aggregated and allowed against the gross total income.	Facts
Finally, the submission of the Assessee before the Appellate Authority was that restricting the deduction under Section 80IA of the Act to the extent of business income was unjustified.	Facts
With reference to Section 80AB, the Assessee contended that the operation of the said section related only to quantification of deduction on the basis of net income.	Facts
The Appellate Authority partly allowed the Appeal filed by the Assessee by an order dated 23.03.2006 and reversed the finding of the Assessing Officer on the issue of deduction under Section 80IA of the Act for the reasons stated hereinafter.	Facts
In respect of Section 80AB of the Act, the Appellate Authority referred to the background of insertion of the said section with effect from 01.04.1981.	Facts
The Appellate Authority referred to Circular No. 281 dated 22.09.1980 of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) wherein the reason for introduction of Section 80AB was explained.	Facts
The Supreme Court in the case of Cloth Traders (P) Ltd. v. Additional CIT, GujaratI (1979) 3 SCC 538 held that deduction under Section 80M of the Act, which deals with deduction in respect of certain intercorporate dividends, was allowable on the gross amount of the dividends received.	Facts
It was decided to undo the decision of this Court as it was contrary to the legislative intent, which was that deduction under Section 80M was to be allowed on the dividend income as computed under the Act, i.e., on the net income after deduction of admissible expenses.	Facts
The Appellate Authority proceeded to hold that Section 80AB places a ceiling on the quantum of deductions in respect of incomes contained in PartC of Chapter VIA.	Facts
Such deductions are to be computed on the net eligible income, which will be deemed to be included in the gross total income.	Facts
The Appellate Authority observed that Section 80AB is limited to determining the quantum of deductible income included in the gross total income.	Facts
Following a decision of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai dated 25.04.2003 in Royal Cushion Vinyl Products Ltd. v. Dy.	Facts
Commissioner of Income Tax, Mumbai (ITA No. 770/MUM/98), the Appellate Authority set aside the order of the Assessing Officer on this count.	Facts
The Appellate Authority directed the Assessing Officer not to restrict the deduction admissible under Section 80IA of the Act to income under the head business.	Facts
The Assessing Officer was further directed to aggregate the deduction under Section 80IA of the Act with the other deductions available to the Assessee and then to allow deductions of such aggregate amount to the extent of gross total income.	Facts
The order of the Appellate Authority was affirmed by the Tribunal and the High Court on this issue.	Facts
Aggrieved thereby, the Revenue has come in Appeal.	Facts
The contention on behalf of the Revenue before us is that the Assessing Officer was right in holding that the deduction under Section 80IA of the Act should be restricted to business income only.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Arijit Prasad, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Revenue, submitted that Section 80AB of the Act contemplates deductions in respect of incomes against income of the nature specified in the relevant section.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that Section 80IA(5) makes it clear that the determination of quantum of deduction under subsection (1) of Section 80IA should be on the basis that the source of income from the eligible business was the only source of income of an assessee and therefore, the deduction so determined should be allowed only against business income.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, the phrase derived from in subsection (1) of Section 80IA of the Act indicates that the computation of deduction is restricted only to the profits and gains from the eligible business.	Arguments of Petitioner
He relied upon the judgment of this Court in Cambay Electric Supply Industrial Co. Ltd. v. CIT (1978) 2 SCC 644 , followed in Synco Industries Ltd. v. Assessing Officer, Income Tax, Mumbai Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2008) 4 SCC 22 and Pandian Chemicals Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Madurai (2003) 5 SCC 590. 8	Arguments of Petitioner
.	None
In response, the Assessee supported the order passed by the Appellate Authority which was upheld by the Tribunal and the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
It is the argument of Mr. Ajay Vohra, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Assessee, that Section 80AB of the Act is with reference to computation of deduction on the basis of net income.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that there is no indication in subsection (5) of Section 80IA that the deduction under subsection (1) is restricted to business income only.	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand, according to him, sub section (5) deals with determination of the quantum of deduction by treating eligible business as the only source of income of the Assessee.	Arguments of Respondent
Subsection (5), therefore, is concerned with computation of the deduction, which is at a stage prior to allowing the deduction so computed.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that there is no dispute that the computation of deduction is only from the eligible business.	Arguments of Respondent
The claim of the Assessee, as accepted by the Appellate Authority, is that there is no restriction on taking into account income from any other source while allowing the deduction computed under Section 80IA, subject to the aggregate of all deductions under Chapter VIA not exceeding the gross total income.	Arguments of Respondent
He relied upon judgments of this Court in CIT (Central), Madras v. Canara Workshops (P) Ltd., Kodialball, Mangalore (1986) 3 SCC 538 and Synco Industries (supra) to argue that subsection (5) of Section 80IA of the Act does not restrict permissible deduction under subsection (1) to be allowed against business income only.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Senior Counsel for the Assessee relied upon the judgment of the Bombay High Court in Commissioner of Incometax v. Tridoss Laboratories Ltd. 2010 328 ITR 448 (Bombay) to argue that the Appeal should not be allowed.	Arguments of Respondent
The controversy in this case pertains to the deduction under Section 80IA of the Act being allowed to the extent of business income only.	Issue
The claim of the Assessee that deduction under Section 80IA should be allowed to the extent of gross total income was rejected by the Assessing Officer.	Reasoning
It is relevant to reproduce Section 80AB of the Act which is as follows 80AB.	None
Deductions to be made with reference to the income included in the gross total income.	None
Where any deduction is required to be made or allowed under any section included in this Chapter under the heading C. Deductions in respect of certain incomes in respect of any income of the nature specified in that section which is included in the gross total income of the assessee, then, notwithstanding anything contained in that section, for the purpose of computing the deduction under that section, the amount of income of that nature as computed in accordance with the provisions of this Act (before making any deduction under this Chapter) shall alone be deemed to be the amount of income of that nature which is derived or received by the assessee and which is included in his gross total income.	None
As stated above, Section 80AB was inserted in the year 1981 to get over a judgment of this Court in Cloth Traders (P) Ltd. (supra).	Reasoning
The Circular dated 22.09.1980 issued by the CBDT makes it clear that the reason for introduction of Section 80AB of the Act was for the deductions under Part C of Chapter VIA of the Act to be made on the net income of the eligible business and not on the total profits from the eligible business.	Reasoning
A plain reading of Section 80AB of the Act shows that the provision pertains to determination of the quantum of deductible income in the gross total income.	Reasoning
Section 80AB cannot be read to be curtailing the width of Section 80IA.	Reasoning
It is relevant to take note of Section 80A(1) which stipulates that in computation of the total income of an assessee, deductions specified in Section 80C to Section 80U of the Act shall be allowed from his gross total income.	Reasoning
Subsection (2) of Section 80A of the Act provides that the aggregate amount of the deductions under Chapter VIA shall not exceed the gross total income of the Assessee.	Reasoning
We are in agreement with the Appellate Authority that Section 80AB of the Act which deals with determination of deductions under Part C of Chapter VIA is with respect only to computation of deduction on the basis of net income.	Reasoning
Subsection (1) and subsection (5) of Section 80IA which are relevant for these Appeals are as under 80IA.	None
Deductions in respect of profits and gains from industrial undertakings or enterprises engaged in infrastructure development, etc. Where the gross total income of an assessee includes any profits and gains derived by an undertaking or an enterprise from any business referred to in subsection (4) (such business being hereinafter referred to as the eligible business), there shall, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this section, be allowed, in computing the total income of the assessee, a deduction of an amount equal to hundred per cent.	None
of the profits and gains derived from such business for ten consecutive assessment years.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act, the profits and gains of an eligible business to which the provisions of sub section (1) apply shall, for the purposes of determining the quantum of deduction under that subsection for the assessment year immediately succeeding the initial assessment year or any subsequent assessment year, be computed as if such eligible business were the only source of income of the assessee during the previous year relevant to the initial assessment year and to every subsequent assessment year up to and including the assessment year for which the determination is to be made.	Reasoning
The essential ingredients of Section 80IA (1) of the Act are a) the gross total income of an assessee should include profits and gains b) those profits and gains are derived by an undertaking or an enterprise from a business referred to in sub section (4) c)	Reasoning
the assessee is entitled for deduction of an amount equal to 100 of the profits and gains derived from such business for 10 consecutive assessment years and d) in computing the total income of the Assessee, such deduction shall be allowed.	None
The import of Section 80IA is that the total income of an assessee is computed by taking into account the allowable deduction of the profits and gains derived from the eligible business.	Reasoning
With respect to the facts of this Appeal, there is no dispute that the deduction quantified under Section 80IA is Rs.492,78,60,973/. To make it clear, the said amount represents the net profit made by the Assessee from the eligible business covered under subsection (4), i.e., from the Assessees business unit involved in generation of power.	Reasoning
The claim of the Assessee is that in computing its total income, deductions available to it have to be setoff against the gross total income, while the Revenue contends that it is only the business income which has to be taken into account for the purpose of settingoff the deductions under Sections 80IA and 80IB of the Act.	Reasoning
To illustrate, the gross total income of the Assessee for the assessment year 200203 is less than the quantum of deduction determined under Section 80IA of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The Assessee contends that income from all other heads including income from other sources, in addition to business income, have to be taken into account for the purpose of allowing the deductions available to the Assessee, subject to the ceiling of gross total income.	Arguments of Respondent
The Appellate Authority was of the view that there is no limitation on deduction admissible under Section 80IA of the Act to income under the head business only, with which we agree.	Reasoning
The other contention of the Revenue is that subsection (5) of Section 80IA refers to computation of quantum of deduction being limited from eligible business by taking it as the only source of income.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that the language of subsection (5) makes it clear that deduction contemplated in subsection (1) is only with respect to the income from eligible business which indicates that there is a cap in subsection (1) that the deduction cannot exceed the business income.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, it is the case of the Assessee that subsection (5) pertains only to determination of the quantum of deduction under subsection (1) by treating the eligible business as the only source of income.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted by Mr. Vohra, learned Senior Counsel, that the final computation of deduction under Section 80IA for the assessment year 200203 as accepted by the Assessing Officer, was arrived at by taking into account the profits from the eligible business as the only source of income.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that, however, subsection (5) is a step antecedent to the treatment to be given to the deduction under sub section (1) and is not concerned with the extent to which the computed deduction be allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
To explain the interplay between subsection (5) and subsection (1) of Section 80IA, it will be useful to refer to the facts of this Appeal.	Reasoning
The amount of deduction from the eligible business computed under Section 80IA for the assessment year 200203 is Rs. 492,78,60,973 .	Reasoning
There is no dispute that the said amount represents income from the eligible business under Section 80IA and is the only source of income for the purposes of computing deduction under Section 80IA.	Reasoning
The question that arises further with reference to allowing the deduction so computed to arrive at the total income of the Assessee cannot be determined by resorting to interpretation of sub section (5).	Issue
It will be useful to refer to the judgment of this Court relied upon by the Revenue as well as the Assessee.	None
In Synco Industries (supra), this Court was concerned with Section 80I of the Act.	None
Section 80I(6), which is in pari materia to Section 80IA(5), is as follows 80I(6)	Reasoning
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act, the profits and gains of an industrial undertaking or a ship or the business of a hotel or the business of repairs to oceangoing vessels or other powered craft to which the provisions of subsection (1) apply shall, for the purposes of determining the quantum of deduction under sub section (1) for the assessment year immediately succeeding the initial assessment year or any subsequent assessment year, be computed as if such industrial undertaking or ship or the business of the hotel or the business of repairs to oceangoing vessels or other powered craft were the only source of income of the assessee during the previous years relevant to the initial assessment year and to every subsequent assessment year up to and including the assessment year for which the determination is to be made.	Reasoning
It was held in Synco Industries (supra) that for the purpose of calculating the deduction under Section 80I, loss sustained in other divisions or units cannot be taken into account as subsection (6) contemplates that only profits from the industrial undertaking shall be taken into account as it was the only source of income.	Reasoning
Further, the Court concluded that Section 80I(6) of the Act dealt with actual computation of deduction whereas Section 80I(1) of the Act dealt with the treatment to be given to such deductions in order to arrive at the total income of the assessee.	Reasoning
The Assessee also relied on the judgment of this Court in Canara Workshops (P) Ltd., Kodialball, Mangalore (supra) to emphasize the purpose of subsection (5) of Section 80IA.	Reasoning
In this case, the question that arose for consideration before this Court related to computation of the profits for the purpose of deduction under Section 80E, as it then existed, after setting off the loss incurred by the assessee in the manufacture of alloy steels.	Reasoning
Section 80E of the Act, as it then existed, permitted deductions in respect of profits and gains attributable to the business of generation or distribution of electricity or any other form of power or of construction, manufacture or production of any one or more of the articles or things specified in the list in the Fifth Schedule.	Reasoning
It was argued on behalf of the Revenue that the profits from the automobile ancillaries industry of the assessee must be reduced by the loss suffered by the assessee in the manufacture of alloy steels.	Reasoning
This Court was not in agreement with the submissions made by the Revenue.	Reasoning
It was held that the profits and gains by an industry entitled to benefit under Section 80E cannot be reduced by the loss suffered by any other industry or industries owned by the assessee.	Reasoning
In the case before us, there is no discussion about Section 80IA(5) by the Appellate Authority, nor the Tribunal and the High Court.	Reasoning
However, we have considered the submissions on behalf of the Revenue as it has a bearing on the interpretation of subsection (1) of Section 80IA of the Act.	Reasoning
We hold that the scope of subsection (5) of Section 80 IA of the Act is limited to determination of quantum of deduction under subsection (1) of Section 80IA of the Act by treating eligible business as the only source of income.	Reasoning
Subsection (5) cannot be pressed into service for reading a limitation of the deduction under subsection (1) only to business income.	Reasoning
An attempt was made by the learned Senior Counsel for the Revenue to rely on the phrase derived from in Section 80IA (1) of the Act in respect of his submission that the intention of the legislature was to give the narrowest possible construction to deduction admissible under this subsection.	Reasoning
It is not necessary for us to deal with this submission in view of the findings recorded above.	Reasoning
For the aforementioned reasons, the Appeal is dismissed qua the issue of the extent of deduction under Section 80IA of the Act.	Decision
Civil Appeal No. 1327 of 2021, Civil Appeal No. 1329 of 2021, Civil Appeal No. 2537 of 2016, Civil Appeal No. 1408 of 2021 and Civil Appeal No. 1508 of 2021 are disposed of in terms of the above judgment.	Decision
Civil Appeal No. 1509 of 2021 is detagged as the questions arising therein are not related to the aforementioned issue.	Decision
